Okay, so let's practice using
auto scaling groups.
To do so, first of all, please make sure
to take your instances and terminate them all
to have zero instances running in EC2.
Okay, so next we have to create an auto scaling group.
So let's go into auto scaling groups on the left hand side
and we're going to create our first auto scaling group.
So create auto scaling group.
Let's name our auto scaling group Demo ASG.
And we need to refer to a launch template.
So I'm going to create a launch template right now.
So when you create a launch template,
you need to give it a name.
I will give it my demo template
as well as a description, templates.
Okay, so we're going to scroll down
and specify different options.
So for the Amazon Machine image I'm going to use,
I'm going to go into quick start, Amazon Linux.
I will choose Amazon Linux 2 in the version X86.
And we'll use a free tier eligible AMI.
So that's good.
Next, for instance type, I'm going to select t2 micro
because it is free tier eligible.
So anything free tier eligible is good.
And I will scroll down.
In terms of key pair, I will include EC2 tutorial.
So this is defining pretty much
how EC2 instances within my launch template
and therefore within my ASG should be launched.
Okay, so the options are very similar
to the ones you've seen when you launch an EC2 instance
on its own.
For subnets, you don't include it in the launch templates.
For a firewall security group,
you can select an existing one.
For example, your launch wizard 1.
You have eight gigabytes of gp2 volume.
This is good.
And then for advanced details,
I'm going to scroll all the way down
and I will find my user data.
And for user data, I'm going to input the user data
we used from before.
So all of it.
And this is going to allow a web server
to be created on every EC2 instance as part of this ASG.
So we're good to go.
Let's create this launch template.
It has been created called the my demo template.
I'm going to refresh it and select it right here.
So we have my demo template version one.
We have the summary of it
and we click on next to keep on going.
So we choose the instance launch options,
and the first thing is around instance type requirements.
So we can override the launch template if we wanted to
and be very specific around the types
of the EC2 instances we may want.
Now all the options are very advanced.
We can have a look on your own time,
but we're just going to click on reset to launch templates.
And the only instance type we're going to create
is a t2 micro.
Then we have under network a VPC,
and then we select multiple AZ
to launch our instances there.
And for AZ distribution, we're going to keep it
as balanced best effort.
So this ensures that our instances
are spread across three AZ.
Next we have optionally integration with a load balancer.
And so because we have created one before,
we may want our instances
and we want our instances to be attached
to an existing load balancer.
So to do so, we just attach it
to a load balancer target group
and we're going to choose the demo tg alb load balancer
that we have created from before.
So now we have all our instances from our ASG attached
to the load balancer through this target group.
We don't do anything for VPC Lattice integration,
we don't do anything for the zonal shift
and for health checks, we're going to enable
the EC2 health checks
as well as the load balancer health checks.
So that's our load balancer.
Actually will also check the health of our EC2 instances
and our ASG can terminate these instances
in case they are unhealthy.
Click on next.
We leave everything for desired capacity
min and max capacity to one, we'll see scaling in a moment.
We don't do anything for automatic scaling.
We'll have a look at it later as well.
And for instance maintenance policy,
we just have no policy.
We'll use default for additional capacity setting
and we don't touch any of the additional settings.
So we review notifications,
we don't want any and we don't need any tags.
And then when we're good to go, we review all these options
and then we click on create auto scaling group.
Okay, so my auto scaling group is created
and what it's going to do is that it's going to create
one EC2 instance for me.
So the idea here is that if I click on my auto scaling group
and we get some details, we can see the desired
min and max capacity as well as the launch template
that was used for this ASG.
And then if I go into activity,
this is where the interesting stuff happens.
So when the ASG will decide to create an EC2 instance,
it's going to appear in the activity notification.
So if I refresh this very soon, sorry,
in the activity history,
so if I refresh the activity history,
then I can see that there is a launching
a new instance right here
because the auto scaling group has a capacity of zero
and we wanted one capacity.
So it's just increasing the number of EC2 instances
in our ASG to match the desired capacity.
So if I go to the tab instance management, as we can see,
one EC2 instance was created by the ASG.
And so if we go to the instances tab right here,
we can see that the EC2 instance is currently running
and initializing.
So it's pretty cool.
Now the cool thing is that because we had set up
our ASG to be linked to our target groups,
then if we go to the target groups on the left hand side
and find my first target group
and go to targets, my EC2 instance is being,
and I will just expand it.
My EC2 instance is being registered into my ALB.
So right now it shows that as unhealthy
because the objects are failing
because the EC2 instance is still bootstrapping,
but if after a bit it passes, it will be shown as healthy
and then will be registered into my ALB.
So let me pause the video to wait for that.
Okay, so my instance is now healthy,
and then if I go to my ALB
and refresh, I get the hello world response.
That means that everything is functioning.
The instance was created by an ASG,
we can see it in the EC2 console.
It was registered into the target group, which is linked
to our load balancer and therefore our load balancer
is fully working.
Now if the instance never gets healthy, it gets unhealthy,
then because we set up our ASG
to terminate unhealthy instances,
what you're going to see is that the instance
is going to be terminated and a new one will be created.
So you will see this mostly in the activity history.
If you do have this, the reason why this is happening
is that your EC2 instance is misconfigured.
This could be either a security group issue
or it could be an EC2 user data script issue.
So please check those
before asking questions in the Q&A.
But these are the errors that you should be having.
So now we have one EC2 instance and it's in service.
And what we could do is that we can experience the scaling
by editing the auto scaling group size.
So we want two instances
and so we have to increase the maximum capacity as well.
So we'll update this.
And now what we told the ASG is that we want you to create
one or more EC2 instance for us.
So if you go to the activity history
and then refresh it,
very soon is going to show a new activity
that it will be trying to be launching an EC2 instance.
So here we go.
Now it says launching a new EC2 instance
because you have changed the desired capacity
from one to two.
And the actual number of instances
in our ASG was only one.
So now as you can see, we have a second EC2 instance
being created and after a while
it's going to be registered
into our target group and added.
So we'll post the video for this process to happen.
Okay, so my instance is now healthy.
And so if I go to my ALB and refresh, as we can see,
I got my two IPs that are looping through my ALB.
So everything is working great.
And so one last thing.
So if we go to activities, we can see the two EC2 instances
were launched successfully.
Now let's go through the opposite.
We're going to scale down our capacity
by putting the desire capacity back to one and update it.
And what this will do is that it will say,
hey, it looks like you have two instances,
but now you need only one.
So I'm going to pick one of these two instances right here
and terminate them.
So as you can see here, it says I'm terminating
one of these instances because of the change
of the configuration of the ASG
and it's going to terminate the instance
and then de register it from the target group.
And then we'll be back with only one EC2 instance
in our ASG.
So that's it for this lecture.
You've seen the whole power of ASG
and I will see you in the next lecture
to talk about automatic scaling.